Mtm 42561 implement a sample codec microservice using the lpwan codec sdk (#32)
Cumulocity-IoT/cumulocity-examples: lora-codec-lansitec/readme.md

﻿# Writing your own LPWAN Custom Codec using lpwan-custom-codec

## Introduction

Cumulocity IoT has the ability to integrate LPWAN devices via LPWAN agents. Supported list of LPWAN agents. (https://cumulocity.com/guides/protocol-integration/overview/)   

In the following, we describe how to implement a custom codec microservice for implementing LPWAN device specific codec for decoding and encoding the device payload. 

## Codec Workflow

> We have to deploy the codec microservice into Cumulocity where the codec microservice creates the device types with the list of supported device models.

Reviewer: @BeateRixen What are the rules on "we" here? Do we continue to use "we recommend you to" or a direct addressing of the user?

#### The REST endpoint: /decode

LPWAN codec microservice automatically exposes one REST endpoint using the path */decode*

#### Request JSON body format

Following is the request JSON input accepted by the /decode endpoint:

```
{
    "sourceDeviceId":"<<device Id>>",
   	"value":"<<The value to be decoded (hex string)",
   	"args": {
   		"deviceModel": "<<device model>>",
   		"deviceManufacturer": "<<device manufacturer>>",
   		"sourceDeviceEui": "<<device external Id>>"
   	},
    
}
```

> The LPWAN agent passes in the following fragments to the codec microservice.

Reviewer: The LPWAN agent passes in the following fragments to the codec microservice.
```suggestion
The LPWAN agent passes in the following fragments to the codec microservice:
```

> *args* - Meta information that is required by codec microservice to know the model and manufacturer of the device, along with the EUI of the device.

Reviewer: Make this a list

*sourceDeviceId* - The ID of the source device in the Cumulocity IoT inventory

*value* - The actual value to be decoded. The value is a series of bytes encoded as a hexadecimal string

> **Example**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example:**
```

```
{
    "sourceDeviceId": "1025"
    "value": "202355251812984589",
    "args": {
        "deviceModel": "Asset Tracker",
        "deviceManufacturer": "LANSITEC",
        "sourceDeviceEui": "AA02030405060708"
    },
}
```

#### Response JSON body format

Following is the response JSON format emitted by the /decode endpoint:

```
{
  "alarms": [<<Array of alarms to be created>>],
  "alarmTypesToUpdate": [<<Array of alarm types to be updated>>],
  "events": [<<Array of events to be created >>],
  "dataFragments" : [Map <<fragment-path>,<Value>>],
  "success": true || false,
  "measurements": [<<Array of measurements to be created>>]
}
```

The fragments above are used as follows:

> 

Reviewer: Make this a list

                },
                "type": null,
                "name": null,
                "lastUpdated": null,
                "creationTime": null,
                "owner": null,
                "childDevices": null,
                "childAssets": null,
                "childAdditions": null,
                "deviceParents": null,
                "assetParents": null,
                "additionParents": null,
                "lastUpdatedDateTime": null,
                "creationDateTime": null,
                "selfDecoded": null
            },
            "dateTime": "1997-10-26T13:27:16.000Z",
            "lastUpdatedDateTime": null,
            "creationDateTime": null,
            "selfDecoded": null
        }
    ],
    "measurements": null,
    "dataFragments": [
        {
            "key": "c8y_Position/lat",
            "value": null,
            "valueAsObject": 9.609690346957522E-28
        },
        {
            "key": "c8y_Position/lng",
            "value": null,
            "valueAsObject": 1.1554608044067426E-17
        }
    ],
    "message": null,
    "success": true,
    "selfDecoded": null
}

```

#### The REST endpoint: /encode

> LPWAN codec microservice automatically exposes one REST endpoint using the path */encode*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LPWAN codec microservice automatically exposes one REST endpoint using the path */encode*.
```

#### Request JSON body format

Following is the request JSON input accepted by the /encode endpoint:

```
{
    "sourceDeviceId":"<<device Id>>",
    "commandName":"<<name of the command to be encoded>>",
    "commandData":"<<text of the command to be encoded>>",
    "args":{
        "deviceModel": "<<device model>>",
   		"deviceManufacturer": "<<device manufacturer>>",
   		"sourceDeviceEui": "<<device external Id>>"
    }
}
```

> The LPWAN agent populates the below fragments while invoking the codec microservice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LPWAN agent populates the following fragments while invoking the codec microservice:
```

> 

Reviewer: Make this a list

*args* - Meta information that is required by codec microservice to know the model and manufacturer of the device, along with the EUI of the device.

*sourceDeviceId* - The ID of the source device in the Cumulocity IoT inventory

*commandName* - The name of the command to be encoded

*commandData* - The text of the command to be encoded

> **Example**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example:**
```

```
{
      "commandName": "position request",
      "commandData" : {position request -latitude 10.25 -longitude -5.67},
      "sourceDeviceId" : 26413,
      "args" : {
        "deviceModel": "Asset Tracker", 
        "deviceManufacturer": "LANSITEC", 
        "sourceDeviceEui": "AABB03AABB030000"
      }
}
```

#### Response JSON body format

Following is the response JSON format emitted by the /encode endpoint:

```
{
    "encodedCommand": <<the encoded hexadecimal command>>,
    "fport": <<the target fport>>
}
```

The fragments above are used as follows:

> 

Reviewer: Make this a list

*encodedCommand* - The hexadecimal command obtained post encode, which will be executed as an operation

*fport* - The target fport

```json
{
    "encodedCommand": "9F5000",
    "fport": 20
}
```

## Steps to implement LPWAN codec microservice:

The codec microservice can be easily built on top of [Cumulocity IoT Microservices](http://www.cumulocity.com/guides/microservice-sdk/java).

> In order to serve as a LPWAN codec microservice, two requirements need to be met

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to serve as a LPWAN codec microservice, two requirements need to be met:
```

     *
     * @param inputData Hex encoded input byte array
     * @param deviceId device from which this data comes from
     * @param args additional arguments that may be required by decoder
     * @return DecoderResult object
     * @throws DecoderServiceException when decode failed
     */
    DecoderResult decode(String inputData, GId deviceId, Map<String, String> args) throws DecoderServiceException;
}

```

```java
public interface EncoderService {
    /**
     * Encodes the EncoderInput object into EncoderResult object
     * 
     * @param encoderInputData the EncoderInputData object containing the source device id, command name, command data and the properties
     * @return EncoderResult the EncoderResult object that contains the encoded hexadecimal command and/or additional properties like fport
     * @throws EncoderServiceException
     */
    EncoderResult encode(EncoderInputData encoderInputData) throws EncoderServiceException;
}
```

## Sample codec microservice implementation

In this repository, you'll find a very straightforward codec example, the lansitec codec (`lora-codec-lansitec`). It is implemented in Spring Boot. 

> Below are the steps to be followed while implementing the microservice. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See below for the steps to be followed while implementing the microservice:
```

                    byte selfadapt = params.get("selfadapt").asBoolean() ? (byte) 4 : 0;
                    byte oneoff = params.get("oneoff").asBoolean() ? (byte) 2 : 0;
                    byte alreport = params.get("alreport").asBoolean() ? (byte) 1 : 0;
                    buffer.put((byte) ((byte) 0x90 | (byte) breakpoint | (byte) selfadapt | (byte) oneoff | (byte) alreport));
                    buffer.putShort((short) params.get("pos").asInt());
                    buffer.put((byte) params.get("hb").asInt());
                    payload = BaseEncoding.base16().encode(buffer.array());
                }

                encoderResult = new LpwanEncoderResult(payload, 20);
                encoderResult.setSuccess(true);
                encoderResult.setMessage("Successfully Encoded the payload");
            } catch (IOException e) {
                e.printStackTrace();
                encoderResult = new LpwanEncoderResult();
                encoderResult.setSuccess(false);
                encoderResult.setMessage("Encoding Payload Failed");
            }
        }
        return encoderResult;
    }
```

## Deploying the example codec microservice

> In order to build and deploy the sample codec microservice, follow [Microservice Guide](http://www.cumulocity.com/guides/microservice-sdk/java/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to build and deploy the sample codec microservice, follow the [Microservice SDK guide](http://www.cumulocity.com/guides/microservice-sdk/java/).
```

Clone this repository first. Next, build the microservice using `mvn clean install`. The build will create a zip file of the decoder microservice.

> In the next step, deploy the microservice using Cumulocity IoT UI. Once the decoder microservice has been deployed, wait a couple of minutes in order to allow Cumulocity IoT to discover the new decoder. Then, open Device Management UI. Inside Device Protocols, you should now see the device types with type as 'lpwan' created by codec microservice. Map one of the device types to the LPWAN device and send uplink message to see the respective measurements 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next step, deploy the microservice using the Cumulocity IoT UI. Once the decoder microservice has been deployed, it can take a couple of minutes Cumulocity IoT to discover the new decoder. Then, open the device management application. Inside device protocols, you should now see the device types with type as 'lpwan' created by codec microservice. Map one of the device types to the LPWAN device and send an uplink message to see the respective measurements 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: @BeateRixen Can you review the readme file present in the PR? The readme file illustrates the steps the developer needs to perform to implement a sample microservice. From your side, only the review of the readme is required.

Reviewer 3: @MWindel Can you please review this readme file? @ashhSAG93 Can Marlene directly do the required changes in the source file?

Reviewer 2: @BeateRixen. Yes. @MWindel can do the changes on the readme file
